Add Defense articles (#4)
xsleaks/xsleaks.github.io-sources: content/docs/defenses/opt-in/same-site-cookies.md

menu = "main"
+++

## Explanation

> `Same-Site Cookies` are one of the most impactful Security Mechanisms towards fixing security issues that evolve `cross-site` requests. This mechanism allows applications to add a special classification to cookies, forcing browsers to only append cookies in requests which comes from `same-site` [^1]. This type of cookies has two modes: `Lax` and `Strict`.

Reviewer: I don't get what you mean here by "evolve".

Author: I wanted to say involve. I guess I merged that word with the portuguese one "envolve"

> `Same-Site Cookies` are one of the most impactful Security Mechanisms towards fixing security issues that evolve `cross-site` requests. This mechanism allows applications to add a special classification to cookies, forcing browsers to only append cookies in requests which comes from `same-site` [^1]. This type of cookies has two modes: `Lax` and `Strict`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Same-Site Cookies` are one of the most impactful Security Mechanisms towards fixing security issues that involve `cross-site` requests. This mechanism allows applications to add a special restriction to cookies, forcing browsers to only append them in requests that are issued `same-site` [^1]. This type of cookies has two modes: `Lax` and `Strict`.
```

### Lax V.s Strict

> The only difference between `Lax` and `Strict` is that `Lax` mode allows cookies to be added in requests triggered by top-level navigations. If `bank.com` sets `Same-Site=Lax` and `attacker.com` makes a request using the `fetch API`, cookies won't be sent. Similarly, `bank.com` is allowed to make requests to itself since they come from `same-site`. Unfortunately, if the attacker navigates the user away with `window.open` (which triggers a top-level navigation) the cookies will be sent and the attacker gains control over that window, being able to still exploit some XS-Leaks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The only difference between `Lax` and `Strict` is that `Lax` mode allows cookies to be added to requests triggered by top-level navigations. If `bank.com` sets `Same-Site=Lax` and `attacker.com` makes a request using the `fetch API` cookies won't be sent. `bank.com`, instead, is allowed to make requests to itself since they are `same-site`. Unfortunately, if the attacker navigates the user with `window.open` (which triggers a top-level navigation) the cookies will be sent and the attacker would have a reference to that window, making them able to exploit some XS-Leaks.
```

## Considerations

> `Same-Site Cookies` are not bulletproof [^2] nor they can fix everything. To complete the defense strategy against XS-Leaks, users should consider implementing [other protections]({{< ref "coop.md" >}}), for instance, to stop an attacker from controlling pages using a window reference even if `Same-Site Cookies` are in use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Same-Site Cookies` are not bulletproof [^2] nor they can fix everything. To complete the defense strategy against XS-Leaks users should consider implementing [other protections]({{< ref "coop.md" >}}), for instance, to stop an attacker from controlling pages using a window reference even if `Same-Site Cookies` are in use.
```

> ## Deploy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Deployment
```

> Anyone interested in deploying this mechanism in web applications should take a careful look in this [web.dev](https://web.dev/samesite-cookie-recipes/) article.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Anyone interested in deploying this mechanism in web applications should take a careful look at this [web.dev](https://web.dev/samesite-cookie-recipes/) article.
```
